and Israeli strikes on Gaza are
continuing the latest killed at least 11
people in a residential building in the
northern gazen town of bet lahia that's
according to Palestinian media families
in southern Israel have held funerals
for former hostages whose bodies
recovered from in Gaza this week now
they were among 250 taken during the
October 7 Hamas Terror attacks which
triggered the war
[Music]
tears of anger and
despair y bsta was kidnapped from koods
Nim on October
7th now his family and his whole
Community is laying him to
[Music]
rest in what world does a mother have to
thank for the return of her son who was
abandoned and
murdered in what world do families have
to beg and cry for the return of their
family members alive and
murdered today I ask you again for
forgiveness my child I'm sorry we didn't
make it I'm
sorry Israel says it recovered book
staff's body and five more in a tunnel
in Gaza earlier this week the Army has
come under heavy criticism for its
failure to predict the October 7th
attack and for its slow response that
day the outgoing head of Israeli
military intelligence says the failures
of October 7th will haunt him for the
rest of his
life we failed in the most important
Mission we entrusted with giving a war
warning the ultimate responsibility for
the failure of the Intelligence Division
rests with
me according to Gaza officials Israel's
retaliatory military campaign has killed
over 40,000 Palestinians in the strip
since the war
started prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is under pressure at home and
from abroad to reach a ceasefire deal
with Hamas but negotiations have been
deadlocked for months
many who attended the funerals of the
Israeli hostages lamented the fact that
months of talks have yet to yield a deal
releasing the
rest this could have ended
differently they could have been brought
back in March and we could have extended
the
deal and they could have returned alive
then we wouldn't be in cemeteries
today Hamas is believed to still be
holding around 110 hostages captured
during the October 7th
attacks Israeli authorities estimate
around a third are
dead now behind the scenes negotiations
over ending the war in Gaza are due to
continue in Cairo so far representatives
from Israel Qatar Egypt and the US have
been involved but not the Palestinian
militant group Hamas the technical talks
are based on a peace plan suggested by
the US in May and approved by the UN
Security Council the plan includes a six
week ceasefire a partial withdrawal of
Israeli troops and the return of
hostages held by militants in Gaza
Israel would release Palestinian
prisoners and withdraw the rest of its
forces then the Reconstruction of Gaza
could begin both sides still have their
differences which it's hoped will be
addressed by a bridging proposal but
Israel and Hamas are accusing each other
of adding and changing conditions Hamas
says it can't accept Israel's plan to
keep control of the Philadelphia
Corridor that's a buffer zone along the
gazan border with Egypt nor can it
accept Israel's demand of a veto over
the release of Palestinian prisoners or
its plan to search Palestinians for
weapons before letting them return home
to Northern Gaza there are fears that a
wider War could erupt if a ceasefire
doesn't come soon
journalist kareim algari has been
following developments in Cairo well
welcome kareim um what's your assessment
of where these talks are at the
[Music]
moment well we have very little concrete
news really there is still a gap Israeli
wants a continued military presence uh
in the Gaza Strip and they want to have
guarantees that they can continue the
war even after ceasefire at a later
Point Hamas wants the opposite they want
the Israeli Army completely out of the
Gaza Strip and they want guarantees for
a permanent ceasefire there were talks
between um US President Joe Biden and
camela Harris and Netanyahu um yesterday
they urging him to seal a deal somehow a
bit contradicting the optimism spread by
state
Secretary blinkin in the last days um
there's also some indications from um
Arab officials from the mediating States
Qatar and Egypt in official ones uh some
say the US went too far
accommodating Netanyahu with this
continued military presence in the Gaza
Strip uh another one is saying there's
an impass right now there's no point in
holding highlevel negotiations until
this is sorted out and there is also
anger at the Arab mediating States about
the fact fact that the US is portraying
Netanyahu is the one who signs the deal
and is ready for a ceasefire and Hamas
is the as obstructing party but having
said all that um we know really in in
fact very little what is happening
behind the courus okay so we're at this
this onass it sounds like um roadblocks
on both sides and meanwhile there is
this threat of Iran and its proxies
attacking Israel unless progress is
made well right now when we get back to
Gaza both sides are trying to reach
something they could have they were not
reach able to reach in the war Netanyahu
wants to establish a permanent military
presence Israeli military presence
signed off by Hamas Hamas wants the Army
to go out both sides put pressure on the
ground right now Hamas is for except for
example attacking the narim corridor
that's the corridor that's where the
Israeli Army is positioned separating
the Gaza Strip in a northern and
southern part um Israel on the other
side is pressuring by not stopping the
bombing uh issuing more and more
evacuation orders now for example in the
two biggest population centers in the
center of the Gaza Strip Kan Yunis and D
balah at the same time uh there is only
10% now of the Gaza Strip that is a
designated safe zone for the people so
so uh it's a way of pressuring Hamas
into a into a deal simply by creating a
desperate situation situation on the
ground for the Palestinians but that of
course is a double-sided sort because
the Israeli Army now is going back to
Kan yunes for this third time that shows
that they cannot really destroy Hamas
whenever they go in they leave they have
to go in again that counters of course
somehow netanyahu's claim to be able to
eliminate Hamas militarily and that of
course increases the need for some kind
of political deal okay thanks for that
Karim Karim Al gaari in
CYO you're
wome meanwhile police in Israel have
clashed with Orthodox Jewish protesters
in Jerusalem who were opposed to
military conscription five people were
arrested officers could be seen beating
and forcibly removing demonstrators they
blocked a roads to prevent demonstrators
blocked a road to prevent people
summoned for military service from
attending the enlistment office aridi
Jews had long been exempt from military
service until June when the Supreme
Court ruled they must be drafted